Added CSS vector-effect property (#34974)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/vector-effect/index.md

---
title: vector-effect
slug: Web/CSS/vector-effect
page-type: css-property
browser-compat: css.properties.vector-effect
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`vector-effect`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property suppresses specific transformation effects in SVG. It can only be used with SVG elements that accept the {{SVGAttr("vector-effect")}} attribute. When used, the CSS value overrides any values of the element's `vector-effect` attribute.

Reviewer: I like the [annotation in the spec](https://svgwg.org/svg2-draft/coords.html#VectorEffects) where the purpose is stated to:

>To include non-scaling features (non-scaling part of the object, and non-scaling entire object).

The example is also good context:

>Sometimes it is of interest to let the outline of an object keep its original width or to let the position of an object fix no matter which transforms are applied to it. For example, in a map with a 2px wide line representing roads it is of interest to keep the roads 2px wide even when the user zooms into the map, or introductory notes on the graphic chart in which panning is possible.

It might be interesting to add a short paraphrase of that, what do you think?

> The **`vector-effect`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property suppresses specific transformation effects in SVG. It can only be used with SVG elements that accept the {{SVGAttr("vector-effect")}} attribute. When used, the CSS value overrides any values of the element's `vector-effect` attribute.

Reviewer: Maybe also a link to /en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/transform for "transformation effects"

> The **`vector-effect`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property suppresses specific [transformation effects](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/transform) in SVG, thus permitting effects like a road on a map staying the same width no matter how far in the map is zoomed, or allowing a diagram key to retain its position position and size regardless of other transforms to the diagram. It can only be used with SVG elements that accept the {{SVGAttr("vector-effect")}} attribute. When used, the CSS value overrides any values of the element's `vector-effect` attribute.

Reviewer: 2x "position", other minor rewords:

```suggestion
The **`vector-effect`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property suppresses specific [transformation effects](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/transform) in SVG, thus permitting effects like a road on a map staying the same width no matter how the map is zoomed, or allowing a diagram key to retain its position and size regardless of other transforms. It can only be used with SVG elements that accept the {{SVGAttr("vector-effect")}} attribute. When used, the CSS value overrides any values of the element's `vector-effect` attribute.
```

- `non-scaling-size` {{Experimental_Inline}}

  - : The element will ignore the effects of any scaling transformations.

- `non-rotation` {{Experimental_Inline}}

  - : The element will ignore the effects of any rotation transformations.

- `fixed-position` {{Experimental_Inline}}

  - : The element will ignore the effects of any translation transformations.

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Preventing SVG stroke scaling with CSS

Here, we start with a 200x100 SVG image that contains two rectangles inside a group. The group is scaled up and rotated. The second of the two rectangles has a class of `thinned`.

```html
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 200 100">
  <g
    transform="scale(2.3) rotate(23)"
    transform-origin="100 50"
    stroke-width="3"
    stroke="orange"
    fill="#DEF8">
    <rect x=" 60" y="20" width="30" height="60" />
    <rect x="110" y="20" width="30" height="60" class="thinned" />
  </g>
</svg>
```

> To this SVG image, we apply `width: 500px` to make it larger than its intrinsic size, and set the classed `<rect>` to have non-scaled strokes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To this SVG image, we apply `width: 500px` to make it larger than its intrinsic size, and set the classed {{SVGElement("rect")}} to have non-scaled strokes.
```

```css
svg {
  width: 500px;
}
svg rect.thinned {
  vector-effect: non-scaling-stroke;
}
```

The result is that the first of the two rectangles has an apparent (visual) stroke width of approximately 17, whereas the second rectangle still has an apparent stroke width of 3 despite having been scaled up in the same way the first rectangle has.

{{EmbedLiveSample("Preventing SVG stroke scaling with CSS", "500", "250")}}

### Overriding SVG stroke scaling values with CSS

> In this case, we start with a similar SVG image to the one used in the previous example. Here, the `<g>` element is rotated as before, but no scaling is done on it. The `<rect>` elements are given a common origin for their transforms, and also have their `vector-effect` SVG attributes set to a value of `none`.

Reviewer: Adding a macro for first occurrence of `<g>` and another small suggestion:

```suggestion
In this case, we start with a similar SVG image to the one used in the previous example. Here, the {{SVGElement("g")}} element is rotated as before, but no scaling is applied to it. The `<rect>` elements are given a common origin for their transforms, and have their `vector-effect` SVG attributes set to a value of `none`.
```
